.TH "zzip_dir_stat" "3" "0\&.13\&.69" "zziplib" "zziplib Function List"
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el        .ds Aq 
.nh
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
zzip_dir_stat, zzip_file_stat, zzip_fstat \-     get meta infornation on a zipped element\&. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
.B "#include <zzip/lib\&.h>"
.B ""
.sp
int
\fIzzip_dir_stat\fR(ZZIP_DIR * dir, zzip_char_t * name, ZZIP_STAT * zs, int flags)

int
\fIzzip_file_stat\fR(ZZIP_FILE * file, ZZIP_STAT * zs)

int
\fIzzip_fstat\fR(ZZIP_FILE * file, ZZIP_STAT * zs)


.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
 The \fIzzip_dir_stat\fP function obtains information about a filename in an opened zip-archive without opening that file first. Mostly used to obtain the uncompressed size of a file inside a zip-archive. see \fIzzip_dir_open\fP.  
.sp
 The \fIzzip_file_stat\fP function will obtain information about a opened file _within_ a zip-archive. The file is supposed to be open (otherwise -1 is returned). The st_size stat-member contains the uncompressed size. The optional d_name is never set here.  
.sp
 The \fIzzip_fstat\fP function will obtain information about a opened file which may be either real/zipped. The file is supposed to be open (otherwise -1 is returned). The st_size stat-member contains the uncompressed size. The optional d_name is never set here. For a real file, we do set the d_csize := st_size and d_compr := 0 for meaningful defaults.  
.sp
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
 	Guido Draheim <guidod@gmx.de> 	Tomi Ollila <Tomi.Ollila@iki.fi> 
.sp
.sp
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
 Copyright (c) Guido Draheim, use under copyleft (LGPL,MPL)  
.sp
.sp
